Final project! Ultimately I’m happy with the results though I wish I could have gone further (I guess that’s always the dilemma!). I got a little blocked on p5 but when I came back to it on Sunday morning, I actually understood how you could use jQuery and p5 together (which felt like big progress for me) so goes to show what a couple days off can do for your brain. 

I think I got too attached to my midterm and got frustrated when it felt like I had to break it first in order to move to the next step but ultimately think that’s an important lesson for me to learn — both inside the classroom and out :)

This class has been an enormous challenge but in the end so rewarding. It was great to find friends who were willing to help and be able to crowdsource issues. Presenting in front of the class was always nerve-wracking but ended up always being better than imagined and was beneficial to feel like we were all in it together. It’s been a really steep learning curve for me as I had zero experience coding (even with HTML, etc) before this class so I’m amazing I could actually produce something that looked *ok* (curse you CSS positioning), took data from multiple places on the internet and made it interactive. Again, with more time (and patience) I think this project can really improve but I am happy to where I got to.

Thank you times a MILLION Calli — I seriously would have a) dropped this class immediately or b) cried every day if it weren’t for your metaphors, energy, and endless patience. Thanks for making me never feel stupid and believing in me! Hope to stay in touch and have a great rest of the summer.