# Katie Takacs Final

For my final, I decided to work with a different API than my midterm. I used SportsRadar, with my goal being to visualize Baseball data. I started by trying to see what information I could get from the API - but since I was using the trial, I found it was limited in the search calls I could do. They would give you an example search, but then finding information for specific players was more difficult. I tried writing the API call in different ways to pull the information, but part of what was tricky was tht each part of the information was coded. For example, each player had a code for his name to be searched by. With Calli's help, I was able to find the codes for the current Red Sox team, and I decided to use that to create some data visualization for Mookie Betts.

Once I was able to get the API working, I made a profile for him - showing his name, jersey number, where and when he was born - things like that. One of my goals for this project was to make it more focused than my Midterm - and I think by starting with this, it gave my project a definite direction.

I knew I wanted to have photos of him. For now, the photos are pulled up locally. I didn't have time for this project, but I know I could easily create an API call to Flickr to pull up pictures of Mookie Betts. I did some testing of this and found that on Flickr, because "Mookie Betts" is such a specific call and person, only photos of him came up for the first few pages of results. 

Then I set out on trying to visualize his current season data. I played with trying to make arrays depicting his career statistics - but I found I didn't really like where that was going. Betts only has 4 seasons in the MLB, so it wasn't as intersting as someone wiht a longer career. And the more I thought about it, the more I wanted to just focus on his 2017 season - try to find fun ways to display his stats in a way that makes sense, or illustrates the statistic you're looking at. With baseball you can really quantify everything with a number - it's a game of averages, and they can find the averages for EVERYTHING. There's OBS (on base), OBPS (on base plus slugging), LOB (left on base) - essentially, any combination of letters can equal a statistic that's part of a player's profile. It's near impossible to keep track of them all, or know what they all really mean. And, it's also interesting how over the years, which numbers have come to be more important than others. Either way, I wanted to try to find simple and fun ways to illustrate the main statistics for Mookie Betts. And - I also wanted to incorporate his batter's box song. It's one of the more fun things that has become more an dmore popular - the batter's box song. It gives the player more personality, and you can make playlists based off of your team, which just adds another level of fun to the game. (This is one of those things that I wish there was a Batter's Box API...)

For my variables, I'm still looking at my AJAX calls and using that information for my variables with my p5 functions. It's one of those where I swear I tied every combination of declaring jus the varible name, then calling them in teh AJAX call - but then I wasn't able to use it for my draw function. I'm sure there's something silly I'm doing there, and I'm still trying to suss that out. I know I can also call to the API in p5 itself with an html call, I think. But because I wanted to get onto the p5 animations, I pulled hte information with the AJAX calls, and then hard coded the p5 variables. Which I know is cutting a corner for right now, ut I'm working on fixing that.

So I started with the basics - depicting homeruns, doubles, strikes, and total hits. I wanted to break it down the way I did to show how you can add these up to show the overall profile of a player. I wasn't able to work it out with this API, but in the future, I'd love to have the visual be spread out for when in the season the homerun, strike, or double happened. Right now, I have them all side by side - but it would be good to show the time spread. For example, Betts had a great hitting streak, and it would be good if the spacing of the balls could show that in some way. I would have to delve in to the API more to figure out how to do that - so for now, I just have the depiction in a for(loop) with even spacing. Then, if you move the mouse over the green arrow, it has an animation for Homeruns, Doubles, and Strikes - trying to depict a little of what that statistic is. (For homeruns, you celebrate, whereas with strikes, you stop and go back to the dugout.) Looking back at my code for all this, I can see how I've got a lot of the same type of for(loop) over and over again. With more time, I'm sure I could look at making this a function on its own, then I'm not writing the same code over and over again. But for now, I like it like this because I can say that I finally understand writing a for(loop) - which is a big deal for me. Also, I never really understood the code of the mouse placement calls, where if the mouse is in this area, then do this. And now I definitely do, which is also a personal triumph for me.

Then I looked at Stolen Bases and Caught Stealing. For this, I really wanted to use snips of Jane Addiction's song, "Caught Steling" - which is pretty self explanatory why. I edited the sound bite, and then I call it locally with p5. During class, everyone chipped in and helped me figure out why I was getting the echo effect of the sound clip playing  - I just needed to add the 'if ______.isPlaying' so clean up the call so it would only call playing the clip once while it was playing. A check that seems so obvious now, but I wasn't able ot figure it out on my own. (Like, of course every time you move the mose within the area I defined it's going to start playing that clip again - I didn't tell it not to do that.)

Overall, I had a lot of fun on this final. I still want to find better ways to portray the percentages - like the batting average. Baseball is literally the only thing that you do where hitting the ball 30% of the time is considered excellent - and I'd love to find a way to show that graphically. It seems like the only way to show the batting average in terms of what everyone else's batting average is - but that seems muddy to me. So I didn't get far enough to have an animation for that - but I'm going to keep playing with things and working on it.

I definitely am happy with where I got on the final. I definitely had mroe direction going into this project, and I think because I focused on just doing data visualization for one player over one season, I was able to focus my idea while still making something more dynamic than my midterm. I worked a lot ont he display and trying to make everything look nice together. I didn't know about the various color theory websites that other students used - so I'm interested in looking at those a bit to see what else I could do for this project. And overall, I think I like where my data visualization is headed for baseball than most other websites for baseball players. They just aren't as much fun, and they are just trying to cram as much information on as possible. I fully understand why, but I do think there's a better way that helps to give the statistics more meaning and make them more understandable off the bat (pun intended). 